Welcome back.
So I've just found exactly the code that I need to send myself a text message.
Let's give that a go.
I'm going to copy and paste into my S M S dot pi file that I just created in my tax me folder and all
right that looks like it's the code that I need.
Now before I do this it looks like this gives me a nice dashboard to test on my code before I actually
run it myself.
So I'm going to here in this to field actually put my phone number down.
Now I'm going to blur this out.
I don't want people text me because I'm already bad at answering text as it is
and the body over here will say hey are you not.
Let's go.
Hello.
There we go.
And we see over here that it actually updates right over here.
So let's make their request and see what happens
so I get a 400 bad request the two number is not a valid phone number.
And that's because I forgot the prefix.
Let's do a make request again.
All right.
And I get an error.
The number is unverified trial accounts cannot send messages to unverified numbers.
So I have to verify my number that they gave me.
That's kind of annoying but Maria let's let's do that all right.
So after a bit of searching I saw over here that we can go to phone numbers and in the verified caller
I.D. I have to verify my number.
So I actually have to enter my real phone number so that they can verify it.
I guess this is so that people can just spam random phone numbers which makes sense.
So let's see where is Canada here.
And I'm going to hide my number again
and I guess or we can I don't want you to call me so let's do text instead.
Oh I have to enter it again.
All right.
Text me Yep I got a verification code.
Submit.
That's kind of cool I got a text on my phone.
All right.
So I have my verified number.
Let's go back to where were we.
We were doing our project get started all right and we have to do hello and we'll use python again
okay.
Let's make their request and see what happens.
Hey.
Two hundred and one created.
Their request was successful
and holy moly.
I'm I'm going to post this on the screen but I just got a text from William says hello.
Not mind you.
It says that a sent from a 12 year old trial account.
So obviously when I have a fully paid non trial account it wouldn't say this but this is awesome.
I just received a text.
All right.
So I didn't even have to open anything really.
I can just copy and paste this into
my project file.
I just need to copy the author token which in here they automatically include by I am assume that I
can get the author tokens somehow from here.
Let's see how we can grab it the two settings.
I'll search off token leads to authorized apps there should no not there.
Where could it be.
Must go to user settings.
No that's not it.
That's silly.
Look at that in the dashboard auth token.
I can just click view definitely going to hide that.
After this
so now ortho can I can just paste it in here and I can change the body to whatever I want so I'll say
I can't believe this works.
Now the other thing is is we have to download the Twilio library so let's just say Pip 3 install Twilio
all right.
And this is now installed and let's run this file.
I'm going to say Python 3 s m s dot pi
all right.
Looks like it may have worked.
Let's see oh boy.
I am taking a screenshot of this.
That definitely worked.
I just received a text message.
How cool is that.
Now the reason I showed you this text tutorial is not because you really learn anything from it.
I just wanted to show you my thought process when I work through things that maybe I haven't encountered
before.
It's a lot of trial and error.
Knowing where to look.
For example I knew that Twilio was a popular tool for text messaging but even googling you're most likely
going to come across Twilio and then it's all about reading about their API and what you can do and
most of them like 20 years if they're big enough have really good documentation where you basically
don't even have to code.
Now the beauty here is that in a couple of minutes I was able to send myself a text message and now
there's so many use cases that you can think of.
Again we want to start thinking like programmers how can we use this maybe when we receive an email
from an important person.
Maybe when we get a specific tweet that we're interested in maybe we can receive a text using the Twilio
API.
Maybe you have a portfolio Web site and you want to get a text.
Anytime somebody completes your contact form or maybe orders your product from your startup landing
page.
The possibilities are endless but with that you've just learned how to send yourself a text message.
That was a lot of fun but I think we deserve a break now.
So I'll see you in the next video.